doc/setup.md, before:

Run `setup.py`
==============

Create a user that will own the loris application, e.g.:

```
$ sudo adduser loris
```

This user needs to have a home directory (unless you want to override it in the WSGI [`home=` directive](https://code.google.com/p/modwsgi/wiki/ConfigurationDirectives#WSGIDaemonProcess)) and the user and group name should match the `run_as_user` and `run_as_group` options in the `[loris.Loris]` section of `loris2.conf` and the `--loris-owner` and `--loris-group` options that you pass to `setup.py` (see below).

Finally, from the `loris` (not `loris/loris`) directory, either as root or with `sudo` run `./setup.py install` with the options of your choice.

Note: on Ubuntu 20 you might have to run `sudo python3 setup.py install` instead.

There are a bunch of flags that can be passed to `setup.py install` to customize where things wind up. Assuming you run `setup.py` with appropriate permissions (probably root), the script will make any directories that don't exist and set the ownership and permissions appropriately.

These are the options (they can also be viewed by executing `python setup.py install --help`):

```
 --kdu-expand      Path to the Kakadu executable [Default: /usr/local/bin/kdu_expand]
 --libkdu          Path to __the directory that contains__ libkdu.so [Default: /usr/local/lib]
 --image-cache     Path to image cache directory [Default: /var/cache/loris2]
 --tmp-dir         Path to temporary directory (loris will make its temporary files and pipes here) [Default: /tmp/loris2]
 --www-dir         Path to www directory (wsgi and index file will be here) [Default: /var/www/loris2]
 --log-dir         Path to directory for logs [Default: /var/log/loris2]
 --source-images   Path to source images directory [Default: /usr/local/share/images]
 --config-dir      Where to put the config file. loris2.conf will be here after install. [Default: /etc/loris2]
 --info-cache      Path to info cache directory [Default: /var/cache/loris2]
 --loris-owner     User that will own the application and has permission to write to caches. [Default: loris]
 --loris-group     Group that will own the application and has permission to write to caches. [Default: loris]
```

All of these will be updated in the config file during deployment.

Note again that __Kakadu is no longer installed__ by the setup script; it didn't work for too many people. You may use the copy that is bundled with Loris, provided you comply with the [terms outlined by NewSouth Innovations](http://www.kakadusoftware.com/index.php?option=com_content&task=view&id=26&Itemid=22) and this version works on your system. Either of these may well not be the case, in which case you will need to obtain a copy of Kakadu 7+ separately and may need to compile it for your system.


* * *

Proceed to [Deploy with Apache](apache.md) or go [Back to README](../README.md)

Commit message:

Add instructions for Ubuntu 20 to setup docs. Slightly restructure instructions for better  clarity. Add paragraph about running setup_directories.py script. Add paragraph about where the generated WSGI file can be found.

doc/setup.md, after:

Run `setup.py`
==============

Create a user that will own the loris application, e.g.:

```
$ sudo adduser loris
```

This user needs to have a home directory (unless you want to override it in the WSGI [`home=` directive](https://code.google.com/p/modwsgi/wiki/ConfigurationDirectives#WSGIDaemonProcess)) and the user and group name should match the `run_as_user` and `run_as_group` options in the `[loris.Loris]` section of `loris2.conf` and the `--loris-owner` and `--loris-group` options that you pass to `setup.py` (see below).

Finally, from the `loris` (not `loris/loris`) directory, run

    $ sudo ./setup.py install

with the options of your choice.

For Ubuntu 20:

    $ sudo python3 ./setup.py install

There are a bunch of flags that can be passed to `setup.py install` to customize where things wind up:


```
 --kdu-expand      Path to the Kakadu executable [Default: /usr/local/bin/kdu_expand]
 --libkdu          Path to __the directory that contains__ libkdu.so [Default: /usr/local/lib]
 --image-cache     Path to image cache directory [Default: /var/cache/loris2]
 --tmp-dir         Path to temporary directory (loris will make its temporary files and pipes here) [Default: /tmp/loris2]
 --www-dir         Path to www directory (wsgi and index file will be here) [Default: /var/www/loris2]
 --log-dir         Path to directory for logs [Default: /var/log/loris2]
 --source-images   Path to source images directory [Default: /usr/local/share/images]
 --config-dir      Where to put the config file. loris2.conf will be here after install. [Default: /etc/loris2]
 --info-cache      Path to info cache directory [Default: /var/cache/loris2]
 --loris-owner     User that will own the application and has permission to write to caches. [Default: loris]
 --loris-group     Group that will own the application and has permission to write to caches. [Default: loris]
```

All of these will be updated in the config file during deployment.

After running `setup.py`, you have to run:

    $ sudo ./bin/setup_directories.py 
    
This script will then create any directories that don't exist and set the ownership and permissions appropriately.

For Ubuntu 20:

    $ sudo python3 ./bin/setup_directories.py

The `loris2.wsgi` WSGI file should now have been created and can be found in the directory that is configured as the `www_dp` directory in the `loris2.conf` file (by default: `/var/www/loris2`).

Note again that __Kakadu is no longer installed__ by the setup script; it didn't work for too many people. You may use the copy that is bundled with Loris, provided you comply with the [terms outlined by NewSouth Innovations](http://www.kakadusoftware.com/index.php?option=com_content&task=view&id=26&Itemid=22) and this version works on your system. Either of these may well not be the case, in which case you will need to obtain a copy of Kakadu 7+ separately and may need to compile it for your system.


* * *

Proceed to [Deploy with Apache](apache.md) or go [Back to README](../README.md)
